Our application takes into consideration the events prior to the voting day, i.e., the registration of the voter in the voter list and notifying him where to vote on what date. Also our application provides constituency wise data of the different candidates, and compares them on different metrics as well as the history of that constituency, as to who were the previous winners and what were the parties that they belonged to.
 Given below are the various functionalities of our application in detail:
 
•	Automatic Registration - As soon as a person turns 18, our application sends an automatic message on that person’s registered phone number based on his Aadhaar Card details. Along with the message will be a link to a form which the person has to fill in order to get his Voter ID card made. It will ask various details as to what are the current address of that person and in what constituency he wants to register himself as a voter. After filling and submitting the form, the user will get another message after some time.  This message will contain various details like his Voter ID and his constituency name.

•	Name check on Voter list – A month prior to the election, the application does a database check of all the voters that have been registered in the constituency. Then it compares the names in the database with the names in the voter list for the election. If someone’s name is missing, it would first send a message to the person to ask if they have changed their voter constituency. If they reply in negative, the application sends an automatic message to the election commission to add the concerned person’s name in the voter list.

•	Election Calendar- The application would send periodic updates to the user about the upcoming election in their constituency and also where the voting booths are being set up. If for some reason, the person will not be available in the constituency in that time period, the person will be able to cast their vote through the application via a secure blockchain mechanism. 

•	Changing their constituency- If a user has shifted from one city to another and hence, wants to get their voter constituency shifted to the new city, they can use the application to fill a form and get the change done.

•	Candidate details- The user will be able to see the various details of a candidate standing for the election.  It will also be able to compare them on the basis of various metrics. Also, one will be able to view the constituency history as well as to who were the previous winners and what were the various measures taken by them during their tenure. Also, enlisted would be the campaigning details and manifestoes of the various candidates standing for the election. This would help the voters make an informed choice about the candidate they should vote for.
